Okay,
guys.
And welcome back.
So I fully rammed.
All of the code from the last lecture have also added a new sub in here.
There's nothing in it,
but it's called logical one be on.
That's what I want to do is just copy this code into here on modify this code a little bit
.
So if it isn't mail,
it returns a different message.
Okay,
Now we're gonna have a look exactly the same.
Test a game,
but this time using cells so you can see up here.
We use the range objects and we use active cell dot value in the active cell offset.
But this time we're going to use the cells.
Object.
Now,
I normally prefer to write code the first time round using range because you can actually
watch what it is doing inside Excel.
So if you're gonna make a mistake,
it's pretty obvious what you're doing.
Then if I have the time and inclination,
I'll then converted to cells because it's more efficient and you'll see why in this test.
So it's exactly the same code so fast,
like the right she clear the old contents cells.
See,
sit,
start again.
Cells to to two rows down.
Two columns insert still print us into B two dot select.
If I just stepped down to that,
they go,
You can see that we've selected be to On this time we're going to use a four next loop
because we have 50 lines of data I'm gonna reiterate 50 times.
So for X equals 1 to 50.
So far,
so good.
Now I'm gonna in dende because it makes the loops easy to read.
I'm gonna say,
if cells X plus one because we're starting at line two.
So on the first situation,
X will be worth one,
so X plus one will be too.
So that will be lying to That's the row index become a two because we're looking at column
B So too rose down.
Two columns in two will be constant because we're always looking in column B.
But the X will increase once every time we pass through this loop.
So if cells X plus one,
which will be to the first time through the second time for the third time comma two in
column B equals,
then we said mail and then we're just gonna do exactly the same as we did before.
Well,
almost.
We're gonna say then what we want to do.
You say cells X plus one.
So we're still on road to in the first iteration comma seven,
because column G is +1234567 columns across close brackets stop.
Value equals,
he said.
It's What do you say?
Said It's a man on clothes on.
Then click off Now notice what happens here.
I'm just gonna hover over the different elements as we execute through this code,
and then you'll be able to see exactly what does So f eight if cells and you can see if I
hover over x X equals one.
So X plus one is two.
So two rows down.
Two columns across equals mail.
It most certainly does.
I'm gonna say cells X plus one so again to +72 rows down.
Seven columns across has a value of its Amanda.
When I press f eight,
they go.
You can see that it's written.
It's a man noticed that this has not moved.
We are still in Cell B two,
but when I hit F eight and move through the next iteration of the Loop X is now worth two.
So X +12 plus one is three.
So it's now looking at the third row down,
but still in column two.
So it's actually looking at B three.
Andi.
That is also true.
So execute code on the third passed through X is equal to three plus one is four.
So we're gonna move.
1234 lines down.
Two columns across misses the cell.
It's checking.
That is also true.
Write the code.
It's a rate again.
X is now worth four plus one.
So that's 512345 across on again.
And here X is worth five so five plus warm.
So we're on 12345 plus one image.
And Ross is female,
so this test should fail on it,
so it just move straight down to the next loop on it will keep its rating.
I'm just gonna hit play on there you go with and actually moving down the cells using the
cells objects rather than the range object saves us having to hit that at to sell that
offset command,
which basically means if we automated 1000 times,
we have saved 1000 iterating sins of a line of code,
which is gonna make your code room faster.
Okay,
I'll see you in the next lecture.